Israel says its troops have surrounded
and reached the center of Southern
gaza's largest city commanders in the
Han Unis assaults say their troops are
engaged in some of the most intense
fighting so far Israel says its aim is
to eliminate Hamas which is regarded as
a terrorist group by multiple countries
and the EU now hundreds of thousands of
people have been told to relocate to
so-called safe zones but the UN says
nowhere in Gaza is safe well leftenant
Colonel Jonathan conri Speak for the
Israeli military the IDF and joins us
from Tel Aviv welcome to DW what is the
idf's objective in Han
yunas hello Phil thank you for having me
on the show The Objective Remains the
Same we are going to dismantle Hamas and
make sure that the atrocities of October
the 7th never happen again and that
Israeli civilians will not be butchered
in their homes and burned and raped and
pillaged and that the Israeli civilian
will not be taken hostage and uh I
didn't maybe I missed it but I didn't
hear any reference in the coverage of
138 Israeli hostages that have been held
for 60 days in Gaza maybe I missed it
but the bottom line we are going to
defeat Kamas make sure that they will
not have the ability to ever attack us
again and bring back our hostages and
how would you say uh that is
going so far we are advancing according
to plan uh we have been able to achieve
significant advances in Northern Gaza we
are still present on the ground and
fighting against Hamas strongholds in
Northern Gaza in SAA in jabalia and
other neighborhoods where Hamas is
embedded in and underneath and as you
reported we are currently also operating
in southern Gaza in kanun which is a
very important Hamas stronghold we are
advancing but there is fierce fighting
Hamas probably understand that uh this
is a really crucial time for them and
they are operating accordingly fighting
with almost everything they have and we
are of course fighting accordingly and
you're fighting in one of the most
densely populated areas on Earth how are
you avoiding killing
civilians well it is indeed complicated
you're right in that and there are many
civilians there and we have done and we
continue to do continuous efforts in
order to get civilians out of these
specific areas where we're fighting and
it's very important to understand that
there's not fighting in all of kanun or
all of Southern Gaza that there are
specific neighborhoods Hamas strongholds
where we are fighting and those
neighborhoods ahead of time we have uh
notified the civilians that they need to
evacuate temporarily from those
neighborhoods and we have also advised
them which direction to go before
conducting our oper operations and of
course we continue to apply the
principles of humanitarian law on armed
conflict of Distinction of
proportionality and we only operate when
there's a clear military objective to be
U achieved by military action except
that we have seen that Israel has
designated so-called safe zones before
and told uh uh civilians to go there but
we have also seen that Israel will bomb
those areas as it sees fit doesn't sound
safe to lots of
people yes the the the the only issue
with that statement is that you're not
addressing what the enemy is doing we
don't bomb anything at random okay but
let's address what Israel is doing so
address my point yes I I understand that
you want to focus on that these are
supposed safe
zones despite you you designating them
Israel will still bomb them so again
that does not sound
safe yes can I can I answer
now can I answer of course I can't hear
you Phil yeah thank you so let's first
uh disambiguate where we are fighting we
are fighting against an enemy that is
embedded within the civilian population
and uses everything civilian in order to
fight against us they have fired more
than 11,000 rockets at our civilians
from the civilian neighborhoods
including the so-called safe zones or
the humanitarian zones they continue to
use hospitals mosques un facilities
schools and everything that is supposed
to be off the battlefield for their
military purposes and that is something
that needs to be said every day and many
times in order to understand the complex
and I would say very difficult situation
on the ground that the Palestinians are
now suffering from now if Hamas uses a
what has previously been defined as a
safe Zone in order to fight and to fire
Rockets or missiles at Israeli civilians
or to conduct combat activities towards
our troops from that area then there may
be a case where we will retaliate fire
but that is a very an extremely small
percentage and by and large all of the
designated safe zones have been
maintained as such even though Hamas has
used them in order to fire against us
can you clarify a comment of yours
that's been causing something of a stir
you've been quoted as saying that Israel
believes it has killed two civilians for
every Hamas militant and that this is a
tremendously positive ratio what did you
mean by
that yes that uh was wasn't the very
well chosen words and they were a bit
taken out of context as well but of
course I stand by what I said before and
and now is a good opportunity to correct
that and for those who may be watching
and thinking and taking things out of
context is a good opportunity to set
that straight to understand in urban
Warfare including uh where German troops
have been involved in Afghanistan and of
course where NATO forces have been
fighting in Iraq and in Afghanistan in
Syria and other locations unfortunately
sadly Whenever there is fighting in
Urban Terrain densely populated Urban
Terrain usually the ratio is between 1
29 to to5 one enemy combatant to 15 or
nine civilians that is the applicable
ratio not of Israeli forces but of
Western NATO forces fighting against
similar enemies perhaps in a little bit
less complex areas than we are fighting
because there's also the elaborate
tunnels that is the backdrop of my
comment which should have been rephrased
differently and what I should have said
was a I every civilian life lost in
combat is sad and not the aim of the
operation but if and I said if if the
ratio is one to2 then it is
exceptionally positive within the
context of fighting in Urban Terrain and
that of course does not indicate that we
want to kill civilians we aspire to
minimize that but when you compare it to
other militaries who fight in Urban
Terrain it would be an exceptionally uh
positive ratio of course again every
civan for isn't the um is there a number
of Civilian deaths that Israel would
consider too high in its pursuit of
Hamas we're at about
16,000 Palestinians are killed
now yeah so first of all when you say
16,000 I don't know what you base that
on if you're basing it on Hamas figures
then I you're absolutely right yes I I
base it on figures from the Hamas
controlled health authority if you have
better figures by all means share them
with us but according to the the health
authority in Gaza they're at about
16,000 deaths now so I'll repeat the
question is there a number of Civilian
deaths that Israel would consider too
high the number of civilians that we con
civilian deaths that we consider too
high is
1,200 and those are the Israeli
civilians that were purposely in
intentionally butchered raped and burned
by Hamas Terrorist on the 7th of October
that is the most important number from
our perspective and of course we
continue operations while trying to
minimize civilian casualties and I think
that if you look back on these 60 days
of fighting we have established safe
zones we have evacuated people out of
combat ahead of time we continue to do
that now in Greater detail than what
we've done before War really based on
neighborhood level which is
unprecedented no other military has ever
done that at this level of resolution
and we aspire to have as few as possible
civilian casualties in the fighting but
that is not the main parameter here what
the main focus of us is to defeat the
enemy and to make sure that Israelis can
go back to their homes they are
currently
250,000 displaced Israelis that are not
in their homes because of the fighting
and we want them to go back to their
homes and to rebuild their communities
that were ravaged by Hamas do you know
how many Hamas Fighters the IDF has
killed and if so how have you verified
that
figure we are still working on the
number there are unofficial estimates
that unfortunately at this time I cannot
yet say them I would want to but I
cannot yet say them but we are talking
about thousands it's not in the number
of hundreds and it's not yet 10,000 but
we are talking about thousands of enemy
combatants that have been killed it will
take time because when we count Hamas
casualties we rely a lot on what they
know themselves and Hamas doesn't really
know itself entirely how many of its
operatives are buried underground in the
tunnel system that they dug and are
operating from when Hamas will know and
be clear internally about it I assume
that we will know until then we're
working on very ious assessments and
that is the main reason why we have not
yet made official our estimate of how
many enemy combatants but I can assure
you that at the end of this war there
will be a long list of enemy combatants
and we will be able to cross reference I
ask that only because you don't know how
many how many um Hamas combatants you
you've killed uh we do know in
approximate numbers that you have killed
16,000 uh civilians uh and many more um
uh and many more and injured many more
and I didn't get a clear answer to my
question of how many civilian deaths and
casualties is too many for
Israel I don't think that you know that
there have been 16,000 civilians killed
I think that you know based on Hamas
information that there are 16,000
casualties inaz let's please answer my
question how many civilian deaths is too
many for
Israel Phil you can ask it five times I
will give you the same answer that I
told you before that is not a metric and
the metric that we care about mostly is
our civilians that were butchered not by
mistake but intentionally on the October
7 attack that is the number that we are
focused on thank you so much for joining
us left tenant Colonel Jonathan conricus
from the Israel Defense
Forces thank you